15 Kubernetes Best Practices Every Developer Should Know.

Here are some best practices to use when using Kubernetes (K8s).

As the most popular container orchestration system, K8s is the de-facto standard for the modern cloud engineer to get to grips with. 
K8s is a notoriously complex system to use and maintain, so getting a good grasp of what you should and should not be doing, 
and knowing what is possible will get your deployment off to a solid start.
These recommendations cover common issues within three broad categories, application development, governance, and cluster configuration.

1. Use namespaces
Namespaces in K8s are important to utilize in order to organize your objects, create logical partitions within your cluster, and for security purposes. 
By default, there are three namespaces in a K8s cluster, default, kube-public and kube-system.

RBAC can be used to control access to particular namespaces in order to limit the access of a group to control the blast-radius of any mistakes that might occur, 
for example, a group of developers may only have access to a namespace called dev , and have no access to the production namespace. 
The ability to limit different teams to different namespaces can be valuable to avoid duplicated work or resource conflict.

LimitRange objects can also be configured against namespaces to define the standard size for a container deployed in the namespace. 
ResourceQuotas can also be used to limit the total resource consumption of all containers inside a Namespace. 
Network policies can be used against namespaces to limit traffic between pods.

2. Use readiness and liveness probes
Readiness and Liveness probes are essentially types of health checks. These are another very important concept to utilize in K8s.

Readiness probes ensure that requests to a pod are only directed to it when the pod is ready to serve requests. 
If it is not ready, then requests are directed elsewhere. It is important to define the readiness probe for each container, as there are no default values set for these in K8s.

For example, if a pod takes 20 seconds to start and the readiness probe was missing, then any traffic directed to that pod during the startup time would cause a failure. 
Readiness probes should be independent and not take into account any dependencies on other services, such as a backend database or caching service.

Liveness probes test if the application is running in order to mark it as healthy. For example, a particular path of a web app could be tested to ensure it is responding. 
If not, the pod will not be marked as healthy and the probe failure will cause the kubeletto launch a new pod, which will then be tested again. 
This type of probe is used as a recovery mechanism in case the process becomes unresponsive.

3. Use autoscaling
Where it is appropriate, autoscaling can be employed to dynamically adjust the number of pods (horizontal pod autoscaler), the amount of resources consumed by the pods (vertical autoscaler), 
or the number of nodes in the cluster (cluster autoscaler), depending on the demand for the resources.
The horizontal pod autoscaler can also scale a replication controller, replica set, or statefulset based on CPU demand.
Using scaling also brings some challenges, such as not storing persistent data in the container’s local filesystem, as this would prevent horizontal autoscaling. 
Instead, a PersistentVolume could be used. (Read more about Kubernetes Persistent Volumes).
The cluster autoscaler is useful when highly variable workloads exist on the cluster that may require different amounts of resources at different times based on demand. 
Removing unused nodes automatically is also a great way to save money!

4. Use resource requests and limits
Resource requests and limits (minimum and maximum amount of resources that can be used in a container) should be set to avoid a container starting without the required resources assigned, 
or the cluster running out of available resources.
Without limits, pods can utilize more resources than required, causing the total available resources to be reduced which may cause a problem with other applications on the cluster. 
Nodes may crash, and new pods may not be able to be placed corrected by the scheduler.
Without requests, if the application cannot be assigned enough resources, it may fail when attempting to start or perform erratically.
Resource requests and limits define the amount of CPU and Memory available in millicores and mebibytes. 
Note that if your process goes over the memory limit, the process is terminated, so it may not always be appropriate to set this in all cases. 
If your container goes over the CPU limit, the process is throttled.
